Kind: captions
Language: en
Yeah, you've probably heard of Instinct
AI by now. You know, the invite only
personal agent app that's raising money
at a rumored $10 billion.
Well, what does it look like inside? And
what are some use cases? And what are
some crazy things that you can do with
it? Like, you know, saving money on your
phone bills or getting a visa approved
in a foreign country with only three
messages. Well, today me and my friend
Remy are going to show you the inside of
Instinct AI, the secretive inviteonly
[music] app. We're going to show you how
it works, where it shines, and where it
could use a little bit of help. The
TLDDR is it really does feel like the
personal agent app for everyone,
including your mom. I've got a few extra
invites, so if you like, comment, and
subscribe to the channel, I'll give it
out to some random people. And I hope
someone from Instinct watches this uh
and just piles me with a thousand
invites that I can give to everyone. So,
let's get those likes, comments, and
subscribes going, and I'll see you by
the end of the episode.
[music]
&gt;&gt; AI with Rey's here. By the end of this
episode, what are people going to learn?
&gt;&gt; I'm going to give you an overview on the
new agent product instinct that has just
come out. We're going to go through the
good and the bad. I think they've done a
lot of things well and some things not
so well. So yeah, by the end you're
gonna get a full overview on the product
as a whole and how you can be using it
within your life.
&gt;&gt; So different use cases, what you like
about it, what you don't like about it,
uh why it's interesting, why you should
pay, you know, pay attention to it or
not. 100%
&gt;&gt; by the end of this people I think you
know what I hope Remy is that people
just don't understand what Instinct AI
is and how to use it but also just it
gets people's creative juices flowing
around personal agents in general
&gt;&gt; 100%. I think there's some cool lessons
to be taken to apply to your own
business with how the founders like
rolled it out, how they've been um how
they built it with like network effects,
some cool things like that as well.
&gt;&gt; Cool. Let's let's get into it.
&gt;&gt; Sweet. So, I just wanted to touch as
well on like what I think it did really,
really well and then what I think it did
really, really poorly. So, what I think
it did well is the right amount of
dialogue, not too verbose, used
reactions really, really well, and it
understands them, too. Like, I could
thumbs up react to messages. It would
ask me for for approval. I could just
thumbs up react and it would take that
as a yes. Uh, the utilizes Apple
iMessage features really, really well,
like the the loud messages, the confetti
reactions. It can listen to your voice
notes that you send through Apple
messages. And this one, this one was
like genuinely blew my mind. It was I I
sent it a game pigeon game. Greg, do you
know game pigeon? Like the the um
iMessage games?
&gt;&gt; I can say I do.
&gt;&gt; So
&gt;&gt; I feel like I should.
&gt;&gt; You like this was a thing like back when
I was like younger. You could send it's
like an app called game pigeon. You can
send games. You play games through
iMessage with people. So, I sent
Instinct uh this cuppong one
&gt;&gt; and
sent it off to it and and it came back
and started playing the game with me. I
was like genuinely gobsmacked. We'll see
if it does it here. [laughter]
&gt;&gt; Waiting for opponent.
&gt;&gt; Give it a Give it like
&gt;&gt; a minute there. Yeah. Straight away.
Back on your table. God.
&gt;&gt; So, you can see I was I I was playing
cuppong
&gt;&gt; and it's nailing it.
&gt;&gt; That's crazy.
Just absolutely cleaned up. And then now
it was my turn to play back. So, that
was that was like a really really nice
touch. Like I'm trying to I'm imagining
that the Instinct team would like would
have gone through so much extra dev to
get these game pigeon games to work. I
they have to have actually coded that. I
can't imagine that it's just genuinely
doing that doing it itself. So that was
super impressive. Memory was was cool.
So um when I asked it a question in the
chat about trying to get my monitor box
wrapped when it filled out the visa on
arrival card, I noticed that it put in a
thing about like how many suitcases and
it added in like the monitor that was
being checked into oversize. So little
things like that. I noticed that it
would pull things and ideas that I'd
said earlier that I'd even forgotten
about and pull them into current
conversations. So it did that really
really well. Productivity uh as you saw
it just like reaches out and um when I
asked it to find me a place I ran a desk
in Bali, it messaged me the next morning
and said by the way if you wanted it
same day the cut off is 12 so order it
this morning. Little things like that
were really nice. Overall the
simplicity. So this ties into this one
below is it's basically just open claw
or Hermes agent but for regular people.
And I think that Hermes Agent and Open
Claw, as great as they are, they keep
getting further and further out of reach
for normal people because the power
users all love them and they need to
keep releasing new features to keep up
with what the power users want. But
every new feature they add to cater to
that group moves it further out of reach
for a normal person who doesn't really
understand agents very well and is
trying to use them to take tasks off
their plate. So, I think that this is
just like yeah, they've done it really
really well as like a a personal
assistant agent for like mass market
general consumers. I think they've done
it absolutely flawlessly. And also to
the use cases, none of them individually
are life-changing. They just took like
10 15 minutes off my plate here and
there, but add that up and I can see it
like genuinely being really useful,
saving me hours over the course of the
week. Uh, I also thought, Greg, I'm
curious to get your thoughts on this,
but the invite only approach that they
took I thought was really, really
interesting.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, it reminds me of
Clubhouse, like the early days of
clubhouse.
&gt;&gt; Clubhouse.
&gt;&gt; Oh, man. Oh, man. Remy, Remy, Remy. So
in 2020 there was a twi basically
Twitter spaces app
&gt;&gt; that uh was invite only and you'd go
into these like
&gt;&gt; rooms and like Naval was speaking and
Elon Musk would be in rooms and like it
was but it was invite only. Um, and they
ended up raising money at like, I don't
know, $4 billion valuation and it became
this thing that, you know, got really
big. That being said, you know, it never
lived up to the $4 billion valuation.
So, I think the question a lot of people
are going to have for this is,
&gt;&gt; is this a Club Host moment or is
Instinct going to live up? There's it's
rumored that it's raising money at a $10
billion valuation right now.
&gt;&gt; That's crazy. That's absolutely insane.
So, I don't know. Who knows? But I think
that the way that they did the invite
was was pretty clever cuz it made like
it just if I if I had instant access to
it and I probably wouldn't have even
signed up because it's just every every
new post you scroll past on X is
introducing X agent, introducing Y
agent. It's like but but the way they
did it was super secretive and like I
couldn't get access as soon as I got a
code it was like oh I'm invited. So they
they say they're rolling it out like
that for compute but I kind of think
that it was a marketing play as well
which is cool. And then Greg the trusted
person network that they released or are
releasing is really really cool. So uh
Noah the the founder tweeted this I
think yesterday talking about the
trusted person network. So uh they are
basically releasing this feature where
you can uh add other people's instincts
as an like an allow list into your
instinct. So you can have like instinct
to instinct communication which I think
is like an incredible example of network
effects if they can get on it early and
like capture a good portion of the
market. I think that that could work
really really well for them.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I think what when I read this it
really what really blew my mind is that
it's the equivalent of net network
effects but for the agentic era like I
think yeah
&gt;&gt; you know a lot of people weren't
thinking about network effects in this
way and I think that yeah when when you
read the tweet it makes absolut it you
know makes so much sense right of course
you want your agent to coordinate with
other agents to get stuff done
&gt;&gt; um and I think a lot of people have
questions now around, you know,
especially in the startup ideas and and
just ventureback startup world is like
do, you know, where where are the moes
of these companies? And I think you're
going to start seeing more and more
companies do stuff like this.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Agreed. I mean, it' be
interesting to see if they end up
opening it. So, you can have like your
your Muse agents talk to Instinct agents
or whether they keep it a closed
network. I'm really curious to see what
&gt;&gt; like what route they go down. But I
think this is just like a really really
really cool feature.
Uh the other thing was yeah super fast
computer use like I I I think a lot of
these use cases you could make an
argument that you could do it with
Grockbot but I find that the Grockbot
computer use is really really slow and I
found that the uh instincts computer use
was just super fast and seamless. You
can't even see it. I'm assuming it's
using a computer in the back end. Uh,
and then like tying off, I think that it
just fills the hole of a personal
assistant AI within my stack like really
really nicely. I don't really see myself
using this for anything business work
coding related, but just for haircut
bookings, like restaurant bookings,
making plans. I think that that's it's
going to be really really helpful. And I
noticed too, they also added in Yeah,
they also added in this feature where
every Instinct now has its own email
address. So my Instinct's email address
is like Remy and my last name.
com. So now it can use that inbox to to
sort out bookings and do its like PA
tasks for you without clocking up your
inbox, which I think was really cool.
Also, one of the features they said was
you can just loop it into an email
thread. So if you're in an email thread
and like it involves a task that you
want install, you can just kind of
forward it the thread and it can be
looped in and uh finish it off for you,
which I thought was a really really cool
feature too.
So is your recommendation for business
tasks use Hermes, OpenClaw, Grockbot.
And then for personal tasks, use
Instinct.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, that's how I'm that's how I'm
rocking it right now. I I'm using like
I'm I'm loving Codeex at the moment. I
think they've done an incredible job. So
I pretty much keep a lot of my work
stuff within split between like Codex,
Claude, Code, Grockbot, and then this is
just fills the hole perfectly for
personal assistant AI. So yeah, that's
exactly how I'm using it. Um, one note
too on like the the open clone her for
regular people. Like I set up a Hermes
agent for my mom so she could just have
a personal agent to to use for this kind
of stuff, but it still involved like I
had to set up a VPS with like Docker and
then set it up for her. Uh, I then had
to get her to use Composio so she could
connect her tools up. The gateway
crashes here and there and then it needs
an update. Just a pain in the ass. And
then like I have to manage that too and
there's no way that she was going to set
that up for herself. So, I think that
this is just I think these simpler agent
products for for the mass consumer
market um especially like what they've
done here and how they've built this,
they've done it really really well. The
the stuff they did poorly was I'm not
going to put down like some of those
issues with ordering food and grabs in
Indonesia to Instinct. I'm going to give
them the benefit of the doubt, but I I
think that security and privacy is
something that I've seen as major cons
to Instinct. There's a tweet from Cla
where she's talking about how she
disconnected her bot from Google at
11:00 a.m. but got a summary of her
emails at 12:00. So, it's obviously
indexed them and kept copies of all her
emails, which is a big concern. Another
one from Peter Yang as well where he
said, "Yeah, same thing indexing and
retaining all his emails without their
permission." And people also too, I saw
in the comments pointed out uh things
too about in instincts terms and
conditions. they've have some really uh
concerning things about retaining and
keeping control of some of your private
data like emails. So, if that's a big
concern for you, I think it's definitely
something you need to um yeah, look into
with with Instinct.
&gt;&gt; I mean, yeah, of course it's a concern.
You know what I mean? Like I think like
in an ideal world, Instinct is by Apple
and I just have way more trust in Apple
than a startup just by definition. But
the reality is Apple is not there yet.
And the reality is this product could
save me hours a week. And it's the hours
a week that of stuff that
I hate doing. And so it frees up my mind
so I can build my own ideas and build
other stuff
&gt;&gt; that's actually high leverage. So it's
one of those things where, you know,
obviously I have no affiliation and you
have no affiliation with Instinct.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Not at all. Um, but like we we we
like tools that help us make our lives
easier.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. 100%. [clears throat]
Uh, like this is definitely going to be
a tool that I continue to use for sure.
Uh, I I can see it definitely fitting
into my stack super super nicely. So,
uh, as soon as I signed in with
Instinct, it I can't remember the exact
flow, but it was you you sign in with a
phone number and then straight away it
kind of got me into iMessage and then
this was like a a message that it fired
off as part of its onboarding. And that
was the first thing that like blew me
away is how simple the onboarding was. I
think that's where a lot of AI products
lack, especially if they're trying to go
for like the mass consumer general
market. The onboarding is not
straightforward and clear enough. People
underestimate how
I'm not going to say like how dumb the
average person is, but I think that as
you know, we we're in a bubble, Greg,
and this stuff's like super simple for
us, but for people like my mom who's
super smart in like other aspects of
life, uh, she would just struggle to
understand like basic AI stuff that you
and I take for granted. So, that was the
first thing it did super super well is
is simple, clear onboarding. There's no
concept of MCPs, CLI, markdown files. It
was just log in with the phone number,
bang, you're in. And then this Oh, the
first thing as well is it utilizes the
native Apple iMessage things really
well. Like uh these little confetti
animations, it sends those natively. And
I've noticed that throughout my entire
conversation, if there's something like
important, it'll use like the loud
effect and it will make the message go
big. So, I just thought that was a
really really nice touch.
&gt;&gt; So, it feels it feels human. And even I
mean we'll get into it later, but like
when you when you read the text, it
really does feel like it's a personal
assistant that is a human being.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. 100%. Uh and then off the
rip, it's straight away like sends me
pictures of like here's some use cases.
Here's what I can do for you. And then
straight away it like demo some really
cool things like booking flights, uh,
check you into your flight, you know,
ordering food, cancelling subscriptions,
um, booking movie tickets, you know,
adding stuff to calendar. Another cool
one here, I noticed that it shows off
you can send voice notes, which is cool.
Uh, and then just straight away like I'm
running an invite only beta program.
Here's your link. I also thought it'd be
cool to I'm going to open the platform
that goes alongside the the agent view.
So this is the platform that ships
alongside the agent view that we get. So
just super simple workspace. It's like
here are your contact methods. I've set
up both iMessage and WhatsApp to chat to
it on. And then connectors. I've
connected up my email accounts and then
Slack granola uh and then link for
payments which I which I'll get into in
a minute. But I didn't bother connecting
up other things like Outlook and Linear
and these other like GitHub and stuff
because I like I see this fits really
nicely into my stack as a personal
assistant agent. Uh and I think that
they've marketed it quite well as that
and like Noah in his announcement post
was pretty clear. He's like focusing on
building the best like personal
assistant AI product. Then the next
thing I noticed is it's got a vault
where you can save in things like login
for different websites. uh cards as well
which I've given it two credit cards and
then addresses you can save in there as
well as well as like phones um and then
preferences. I think this is just for
you know signin methods and some data
controls. There's a couple of other
features as well. They've rolled out a
trusted instinct agent network which
I'll go into later as well but that
isn't showing up for me there cuz
they're rolling out these features just
to certain users at a time like slow
dripping them out. So, there's a few
things that I don't quite have unlocked
yet, but the the interface is super
simple. Like I can just, you know, like
I when I think about this product and
think about like the general everyday
consumer, I just think about like my mom
and how like amazing this would be for
for her and her life. So, I can see
people like that just being able to have
this bookmarked and then easily just
connect out whatever tools they need. I
can't really see many people needing
more than an email and maybe some kind
of payment method just for like everyday
assistant type tasks. So yeah, pretty
cool this little workspace. I think
they've done that really well. Back into
the agent session. So she just said like
I don't know what tasks to give you and
it started to flag some things from my
granola and my uh emails. But I didn't
really want to go down the work route
here. flag like things related to to my
work stuff, but I really like clearly
had in mind like I see this filling the
role of a personal AI assistant for
scheduling like appointments, nothing
like business or workrelated or coding
related tasks. So, uh I then had the
idea I wanted to I wanted to like get a
a wavy perm I had like dead straight
hair. So, as you can see, got it done.
Looks pretty good. So I messaged
instinct and I was like can you message
this place in Bali on WhatsApp asking if
they do perms and then straight away it
couldn't message the the account on
WhatsApp so it just sort of directed me
to do it myself uh which I like first
little thing where I felt a little bit
of friction and then I asked it to find
me places in Copenhagen and it went away
and like started researching a bunch of
spots and then it pulled in reviews and
it said want me to check who's got
openings next And I asked it to go and
find some photos which it sent me. It
sent me some more as well down here. Uh
and then
I asked it for some more options. It
just did a bunch of research mainly
looking at like reviews and then it I as
I picked one and asked it to check their
availability and it tried to book but
then uh it ran into the wall of it
needed a Danish phone number. So then it
just emailed them. Uh, and then I said,
"Yeah, please book the Saturday spot."
It it emailed them
and then it just said, "Okay, great.
I've emailed them." Cuz I couldn't book
without a Danish phone number. And it's
like, "I'll just ping you when they
reply." And then, uh, straight away it
just said, I mean, this was like a few
hours later, it just reached out and was
like, "Confirm you're booked." Um, I
heard back from them,
&gt;&gt; which is
&gt;&gt; I wonder if they they know that an AI
agent booked it or do they think it's a
human being?
&gt;&gt; I think they would have thought it was a
human being. I remember I actually I
went and looked at the email it sent cuz
I was curious like how the the writing
style was and I remember I don't have it
up in front of me right now, but I
remember being pretty impressed with how
it wrote. It sounded very very human.
Uh, so that was the first thing. And
like to be fair, I did a lot more back
and forth here than I needed because
when I'm trying out new agent products,
it's like a bit of a a teething process
in the beginning to try and like feel
feel it out and see where it gets stuck
and where it doesn't. So there are lots
of times when because they've made it so
simple, you can't see what the agent's
doing or what it's working on. So the
times when it would go silent for 5
minutes and I would follow up go like,
"Hey, did you get that?" and and and it
was working away in the background, but
now I've started to realize that when it
just goes silent, like it's not broken.
It's just it's handling it. So now I
just feel more confident when I just
give it a task and I can just put my
phone away and not worry and it'll get
come back like 10 15 minutes later
sometimes. So yeah, booked me in. That
was the first task. Is it is it is it
booked in a haircut, which was cool. And
then I asked it while I was sitting
there in the in the haircut chair about
booking a restaurant for three. So it
went in and checked what availabilities
are open for for Bro Central. And then
it pulled in a couple of times and I
just said can we book a table for 7:45
and then it says come back. It says all
stage just needs a card on file for the
no-show hold. And this was when I was
like all right We're getting real.
We're getting into the uh we're giving
the agent a card. And it just sent me
straight away. It sent me this link to
just add in a card, like card details,
and that took me to this page here. I
mean, it no longer works, but literally
just was an instinct back to that
workspace I showed just before, but it
had a field for name, card number, um,
expiry, and then CV. So, the way I did
this is obviously I'm not completely
negligent. So, I you I use Wise for like
my banking. So, I just created a new
Wise card. you can spin up like new
digital cards really really easy for
like Apple Pay and so I spun up a new
digital card set a daily spending limit
on it for about $500
and cuz you know if like the agent goes
nuts and if the max it spends is $500
it's not the end of the world for me. So
um did that and then I just gave it the
card details for that daily limited
card. So then I just kind of felt a
little bit more comfortable cuz like the
the blast radius would be contained and
then uh straight away here added it and
it it reacts to messages which I find
quite cool there sometimes as well like
it I find it has a really nice balance
of knowing uh when to reply and when to
just react to stuff. So sometimes like
it doesn't always give you a reply.
It'll just react which is I think like a
nice touch because I think Greg uh as
you know a lot of these models now when
you're talking to them they're like
overly verbo verbose and just like word
vomit back at you.
&gt;&gt; So
&gt;&gt; exactly I mean again goes back to being
like human you know a human being knows
when to react to something and when to
write. And I think that's like the big
aha moment that people are having with
instinct is
&gt;&gt; it just it's scary. It's scary human.
It's like it it's so it's so human it's
scary.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. 100% agreed. So that was
really seamless there. That booking was
like I was pretty impressed. I mean
obviously I had to stop to add the card
but it just straight away checked they
got a availability. Bang. Added the card
straight away. Booked it and I had the
confirmation email come through. So that
was that was that was really really
cool. And then I started just um added
it into my calendar and then I asked it
again for some more restaurant bookings
uh the next night which was cool. Uh and
then this was this was where I like
started to really push the boundaries. I
I asked it cuz I was in Copenhagen then
heading to Bali for 3 weeks. So I this
is the message I sent it right here. It
was just can you please sort out my Bali
visa? I'm an Australian citizen heading
there on this date until the end of the
month just on visa on arrival. And it
came back and it did just it gave me a
little checklist of everything that it
needed. And then uh the next thing I did
was I asked to sign me up to Emirates
Skywards as well because you can get
free Wi-Fi on Emirates flights if you're
signed up to Skywards. So two like gen
generally uh genuinely like useful
things off my plate there and and quite
risky things with the visa too. So sent
those off uh came back then it asked for
a photo of my passport which I willingly
obliged. Uh so sent a photo of my
passport. It said um passport's good and
then it says like straight away that
also gives me the date of birth for the
Skyward sign up which was like cool. So
it's it's like working on both those
tasks for me. and then gave me the list
of of what else it needed. I sent it a
photo of me [laughter]
and then um just asked it like you know
arriving on the 9th but if my flight
gets delayed is that okay and then asked
it to find the address um from Airbnb as
well. So yeah, delay is no problem.
Anyway, moving on. It just started to go
through getting what it needed from me.
Here we go. So here's here's where it
had everything it needed and then
straight away it sent me my visa on
arrival. my PDF and I was like pretty
pretty blown away by that as soon as it
like had what it needed because like
there was a bit of back and forth
because I hadn't like got my
together. But uh once it had what it
needed, it sorted the visa out for me.
One of the questions it asked me for the
arrival card, it needed to know like
what countries I had been in the last 3
months and it went through my emails and
Airbnb receipts and it literally gave me
a list. It was uh said to me, uh I need
a list of everywhere you've been in 3
months. Here's what I've got so far. Did
I miss anything? and it got everything
spot on. So, that was cool. And then it
uh and when I got to when I got to Bley,
I was like sweating a little bit because
as you know, like they uh they don't
mess around with with immigration stuff.
Like you you'll be deported from there
pretty quick if you um if you get
something wrong. So, I was rocked up to
the gate and scan my passport like
fingers crossed hoping that everything
like did that like I placed my trust in
instinct to do this for me. So, I put my
passport down and then the gate like we
did a little like beep scanned opened
and yeah, it was a it was a cool moment.
&gt;&gt; Totally. It's a it's a lot of trust to
put in instinct and I bet you those
immigration guards haven't heard about
instinct, you know? It's not like you be
like, I had instinct to it.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, there was no like there was no uh
um yeah, pushing the blame onto someone
else there.
&gt;&gt; All right. Well, I think that's it. Um,
Remy, thank you for coming on and
breaking it down for us. Like always,
I'll I'll include links for where you
can follow AI with Remy in the show
notes, in the description. Um, anything
you want to leave people with, Remy? I
think this is a great one to get your
non-technical those people that you have
in your life where you are like super in
love with using agents and you do
everything with agents and and build
amazing products and everyone has those
people in their life that aren't quite
hooked on it yet. They haven't had that
aha moment and I think the instinct can
be the one to give it to them. So, if
you manage to get access, I think this
is a great one to share and get your
non-technical
uh people who aren't using agents
properly yet, get them on it.
&gt;&gt; So, send them this episode so they can
learn about it. It's still invite only.
I've got about I think seven invites.
So, if you comment and like this video,
I'll give it away to some random people.
Um, and uh, you know, I wish I had 7,000
cuz I feel like we're going to get a ton
of comments and likes, but
&gt;&gt; you know, hopefully if this gets a ton
of likes, comments, and stuff like that,
the Instinct team will reach out and
we'll we'll we'll try to get more uh
more invites out. So, Remy, thanks
again. You're a legend. You breaking it
down and uh I'll see you next time.
Peace.